---
layout: page
title:  "Abstracts"
date:   2014-09-14 13:30:00
---

**Team:** Aarhus University — Detector Gadget
**Title:** Small Molecule Detection – Engineering Spinach Based Biosensors
**Abstract:** Since the discovery of Green Fluorescent Protein, it has revolutionized fluorescent imaging of biomolecules inside cells and animal tissue. A similar fluorescent signal can be obtained with the RNA aptamer Spinach, which also allows direct optical monitoring of RNA in vivo. The qualitative detection of a small molecule is enabled by fusing Spinach with a small molecule aptamer, however, quantitative detection has never been achieved.  Here we show the construction of a modified biosensor system for concentration dependent detection of the metabolite S-adenosylmethionine, SAM. By adjusting the stability of the linker region of the Spinach-SAM construct, the aptamer folding is made dependent on the concentration of the metabolite. Combining several concentration dependent constructs allows us to construct a biosensor with a broadened dynamic range.

**Team:** Arizona State University — NanoDevils
**Title:** DNA antibodies: Evolution of a multivalent, coordinated aptamer surface on a DNA tile
**Abstract:** Antibodies are one of the immune system’s most amazing tools for fighting pathogens. They are multivalent proteins, and they are the product of a recombinatory process, which gives them the potential to bind to a wide variety of different targets. Our goal is to use the power and flexibility of DNA nanotechnology to develop a multivalent binding surface that would mimic natural antibodies. We want to base such a structure on a DNA tile, or origami, in order to exploit the straightforward and reliable self-assembly process of these nanostructures. Therefore, we designed a tile that is able to host up to 4 binding sites (aptamers). The characterization of the tile binding properties is performed with a test target protein, human alpha-thrombin, and some aptamers known to bind to it. We apply then SELEX methodologies to coordinately evolve aptamers located at nearby sites on the DNA tile. What we would like to achieve as a result of the evolution process is a “DNA surface” with a quaternary structure that will possibly increase the range of conformations beyond what is achievable with single-stranded aptamers. We propose that the end product will show significantly enhanced affinity and selectivity for its target. In parallel to the experimental approach, we are setting up computational methods, including Molecular Dynamics simulations, to model and further understand the protein-tile interactions.

**Team:** Birla Institue of Technology and Science, Pilani — Team BITSMOD
**Title:**  Viral Detection using Nanodiscs
**Abstract:** Detecting virus directly in the clinical specimen has always been a challenge. Current direct methods used for viral detection include electron microscopy and various immunoassays which are based on demonstrating reactivity of viral antigen in the specimen with known viral antisera. Reliability of these immunoassays has been a question for years major one being false positive results. We designed a flexible system for viral detection based on microfluidic device using the nanodisc technology. Nanodiscs are membrane mimics that can be used to hold membrane proteins in a soluble form for a variety of different downstream applications like study of membrane proteins such as cytochrome P450s, seven transmembrane segment proteins. As their name suggests, nanodiscs are disc-shaped, nanoscale, phospholipid bilayers surrounded by two molecules of an amphipathic alpha-helical protein that surround the bilayer disc like a belt and limit its size. Previously, different viral receptors have been incorporated inside the nanodisc like β2-Adrenergic receptor (β2AR), human CD4 receptor. Nanodisc with tagged viral receptors is immobilized on the microfluidic channel using His-tagged proteins. Under the controlled flow of clinical specimen in the channel, virus is detected and is confirmed by different imaging techniques.

**Team:** Columbia University — Motorocracy
**Title:** Current generation using a microtubule-kinesin system with ferromagnetic beads
**Abstract:** Macroscopic generators rely on a changing magnetic flux through coils of wire to generate electrical current. A novel setup can be realized on a microscopic level using biological motor proteins and ferromagnetic microbeads. In this setup, microtubules are propelled by surface -bound kinesin motors. The microtubules are coated with biotin, allowing the microtubules to be cross- linked with streptavidin. The microtubules can self- assemble into spools, which rotate throughout the experiment. Biotin-coated ferromagnetic beads (1 μm) are introduced into the solution and become bound to the spools, causing the magnetic beads to undergo circular motion. This motion creates a time-varying flux, which could be detected using a fabricated wire loop, and a sensitive ammeter.  Because this micro-generator is powered by ATP, a molecule that is abundant in biological systems, it may be possible to use this setup for localized power generation in many nanobiotechnological systems.  

**Team:** Fukuoka institute of technology — Team FIT
**Title:** The Nano Pop Up Pirate
**Abstract:** Pop-up pirate is a famous Japanese toy. When players stab a "sword" to the specific point on a "barrel", a "doll" pops up from the "barrel". Here we fabricate this toy on nanoscale. We first synthesize the silica particles attached with ssDNA: the “Barrel particle”. We then synthesize "doll particle" attached with complementary ssDNA with partial mismatches. We combine these particles by hybridization to form doll-barrel pairs. If we add completely complementary “sword ssDNA”, the "doll" will be replaced by "sword ssDNA" and will "pop up". We introduce fluorescence molecules on the ssDNAs, so that we can observe the pop-up event by fluorescence microscope and can visualize the sword-barrel hybridization by detecting FRET. Furthermore, we use mesoporous silica as the particle which can contain substances in the pores. Since the release of the colloid particles and substances are triggered by molecular stimuli, this system will be applicable for DDS etc.

**Team:** Hokkaido University — Team Hokudai
**Title:** Nano-muscle designer
**Abstract:** The aim of this project is to establish a method to control the spatial arrangement and polarity of biomolecular motors which is smallest power unit of biological system. Biomolecular motors are organized into various structures which play important roles in a number of biological processes under regulation of space arrangement in vivo. As the ultimate form of assembly of biomoelcular mortors, skeletal muscle has highly organized structure composed of sarcomeres, smallest contractile units of muscles, which are oriented structure of biomolecular motor actin-myosin complex. This high organized structure generates dynamic and rapid contraction of the muscle. Recently a number of techniques to produce various assembllies of biomolecular motors have been developed. However it is still challenging to reconstruct the muscle from biomolecular motors due to difficulty in space arrangement and control of polarity of biomolecular motors. Here we try to control the space arrangement and polarity of biomolecular motors under local temperature gradient using photo irradiation. This project will foster application of biomolecular motors for bio soft actuators.

**Team:** Hong Kong Baptist University — HKBUteam
**Title:** Self-assembled DNA origami conjugated with chlorambucil (an anticancer drug), folic acid (a cancer cells targeting agent) and graphene quantum dot (a fluorescent imaging agent) as nanoscale theranostic agent in cancer cell line
**Abstract:** Self-Assembly DNA origami, a breakthrough in Structural DNA nanotechnology by using hundreds of short ‘staple’ strands to mediate the folding of a long scaffold Single Stranded DNA from M13 phage genome to produce a variety of 2D and 3D nanostructures, have provided numerous possibilities for researchers to exploit for physical and biological applications. Despite a hollow DNA box has been used in diagnostic and therapeutic applications for fighting disease, however, such a design is often expensive and required a sophisticated mechanism to release the load. As an improved approach, our team has explored the possibility of design and preparation of a functionalized DNA origami.  Built on the scaffold of the origami, we call for the  conjugation with folic acid (a widely employed targeting agent for cancer cells), chlorambucil (an anticancer drug for chemotherapic action) and graphene quantum dot (a biocompatible fluorescent imaging agent) affording a potential theranostic device with targeting, diagnostic and therapeutic function.  The fabricated “origami cargo” will be characterized by southern blot , TEM and fluorescence measurement.  The cytotoxicity and cell uptake efficiency in living cancer cells will be explored using MTT assay and confocal microscopy.

**Team:** Huazhong University of Science and Technology — HUST-China
**Title:** The Nano-ship of Maritime Silk Road
**Abstract:** Targeted delivery of drugs plays a significant role in the treatment of disease. In various cases, we can’t achieve the expected efficacy or even introduced some serious side effects just because the drug can’t be transported directionally. To solve this problem, we engineered an intelligent delivery system which can be magnetically controlled and has the ability to identify specific cells. We call it "The Nano-ship of Maritime Silk Road". Just like the ancient Chinese ship on the maritime silk road transporting china and tea to the world, our nano-ship,will carry treatment material to its final targets no matter how hard it is. In order to achieve this goal of having a better targeting capabilities than single nano-magnetic spheres, We have designed a flagellum-like nano-magnetic spheres string for Nano-ship to drive.  Our "Nano-ship" is like a little clever tadpole, which consists of a round head and a linear tail. The head is made up of the substances that need to be transported and we can give it special identification function by molecular modification. Scaffold-stranded DNA will self-assembled into a tube which is the main body of the tail. And it stretched out several single-stranded DNA as designed to connect the Fe3O4 nano-magnetic spheres and the head. Therefore, the self-assembled tail can swing autonomously in an alternating magnetic field and provide the power for the "Nano-ship" to move towards a certain direction. In the experiment, we used a nano-gold sphere which is modified with DNA oligonucleotide probes to be the head of "Nano-ship" .The probe on the nano-gold sphere not only connect to the designed position of the tail but also complete aptamers：an oligonucleotide probe that has the function of specifically recognizing cancer cells.  Meanwhile the tissue penetration ability and unique role in the destruction effect of cells are highlights of our structure. Our "nano-ship" structure can also be applied to orientation to the efficient delivery of material such as antibody, small synthetic molecules, DNA molecular cages, etc.   We hope this "Nano-ship" transport platform can be applied to cancer treatment and many other fields to demonstrate its broad application prospects.  

**Team:** Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur — KARM
**Title:** Targeted Clotting of Tumour Vasculature Using Smart DNA Worms
**Abstract:** We propose a novel DNA nanoparticle that targets cancerous tumors by selectively causing an infarction in tumor vasculature.   One of the critical steps in tumor progression is the generation of new blood vessels to provide oxygen and nutrients to the tumor. However this vasculature also shows a characteristic hypercoagulability. Previous studies have shown that clotting agents like truncated Tissue Factor (tTF) and Factor VIIa can be injected intravenously to induce clotting in tumor blood vessels, leading to necrotic death of tumor cells. We propose the packaging of these clotting agents into a carrier vessel made of DNA origami, designed to carry the agents through the bloodstream, and release them specifically in cancer vasculature.    Our DNA origami vessel is a flexible worm-like structure which has been shown to be an optimum shape for delivery and binding of nanoparticles to such targets. It is composed of a chain of hollow barrels with tapered ends, connected by dsDNA linkers. The two ends of the vessel are conjugated to peptides specific to Aminopeptidase N (APN; CD13) and α-integrin, which have been shown to be upregulated in endothelial cells of tumour vasculature, and have been used as cancer drug targets.The flexible carrier uses the binding of these two ligands to release the drug, thus implementing a logical AND gate: binding to both these “locks” will cause the terminal barrels to open and release their contents – ssDNA “keys” to open the intervening barrels. The intervening barrels contain clotting agents such as truncated Tissue Factor (tTF), whose coagulant ability is regained once they localize to the endothelial phospholipid membrane, and a thrombotic cascade is triggered, leading to an infarction of the tumor tissue.  We hope that this design will lend a much higher specificity as well as improve the efficacy of this line of cancer treatment, that has the potential to be both fast-acting and applicable to a wide variety of solid tumor types

**Team:** Kansai University — Team Kansai
**Title:** Nano QR code
**Abstract:** DNA origami is constructed by combining complementary chains between a long cyclic DNA strand and more 200 kinds of short strands. It had been reported that DNA origami is represented a character, but the quantity had not much. So, we tried to increase the amount of visually information. We focused on QR code that is one kind of two-dimensional code. It is possible to accommodate the large amount of data in a small space. We challenged to make the smallest QR code in the world. In order to express it in nano scale, we utilized height difference of DNA origami structure. We gave the difference by inserting dumbbell hairpins in the Staple DNA. Reading its structure in an AFM, nano QR code may be represented. If camera App can read the figure of nano QR code made of the origami, our project will be complete. 

**Team:** Kyushu Institute of Technology — Team Kyutech
**Title:** Molecular Governor
**Abstract:**   Recently, development of molecular robot composed of biological molecules has been carried out. To operate a robot, a feedback controller which controls the motion of the robot is indispensable. The role of the controller is to match a controlled variable of the robot to a target value. Hence, we attempt to design the controller for this robot. We design a model that considers the difference between the controlled variable and the target value, and is composed of DNA strand displacement reaction.     In our experiments, we would produce a permeation membrane that DNA strand can go through in order to reproduce the proposed model. The membrane design is carried out using a stochastic DNA particle simulation based on the reaction kinetics and the design theory for membrane.    The realization of this controller which outputs the target concentration of DNA strand is useful as a signal input device to next reaction mechanism.

**Team:** National Taiwan University — NTU-Taiwan
**Title:** Nanojellyfish: a versatile immune booster
**Abstract:** The immune system is not fail-safe and sometimes requires a booster during an infection. Here we design a versatile jellyfish-like device that is able to enhance the immune system. We have chosen the hemagglutinin type 5 protein (H5) of influenza virus as our target because current treatment faces problems of drug resistance and lengthy vaccine production. The device, initially a ball-shaped dimer, consists of two types of tentacles, one being H5 aptamer, and the other being either poly-cytosine (poly-C) or poly-guanine (poly-G) sequences. Upon binding H5, the dimer dissociates, releasing the packaged immunostimulatory molecule and exposing poly-C and poly-G. Binding between poly-C and poly-G allows aggregation of the virus-bound monomer. The device is versatile since targets could be modified by changing the attached aptamers. It could potentially provide better treatment for diseases such as HIV/AIDS and malaria, as well as enhance experimental techniques such as bioassays and protein purification. 

**Team:** NYU Polytechnic School of Engineering — The Bellerophon Project
**Title:** Potential for Chimeric Oligonucleotides in Molecular Computing Systems
**Abstract:** DNA & RNA oligonucleotides offer a variety of applications in a range of fields including: computer, materials, and especially bio-medical engineering. Some of the most promising applications of these molecules include the creation of DNA-based sensor arrays that could allow for the diagnosis of genetic disorders and rapid gene profiling among other applications. Oligonucleotides are of interest for computing applications as they are small, inexpensive, electrically conductive, and can rapidly self-assemble to form a layer on a surface. Our project focuses on DNA/RNA hybrids called chimeras, which under specific conditions appear to have greater susceptibility to degradation than purely RNA or DNA oligonucleotides. We investigate the feasibility of using chimeric oligonucleotides to construct a degradation-based bimolecular computer. In this study, we developed methods for controlled and sequence-specific degradation of chimeric oligonucleotides.

**Team:** Ocean university of China — SeaSon
**Title:** Fabrication of DNA triad and DNA Olympic rings
**Abstract:** DNA nanotechnology, after being laid out by Seeman in the early 1980s, began to attract widespread interest in the mid-2000s. Various subfields have derived from it i.e. DNA-Directed Assembly of nano-phase Materials and DNA Origami. DNA catenanes, in which DNA rings interlock each other to assemble functional nanostructures, could be a new promising subfield in DNA nanotechnology, as their component rings are held together not by any chemical or physical bonds, but by ‘mechanical bonds’ that are unavailable in conventional molecular assemblies. Devices like nano-machines could be fabricated based on DNA catenanes. This summer, we are going to make two brand new ssDNA catenanes: DNA triad rings (three-ring DNA catenanes, DNA triad for short) and DNA Olympic rings. The project started from preparation of DNA triad based on Y-shape DNA. The formation of catenated rings was then engaged by the addition of three short DNA for ring closure. On this basis, we assembled Olympic rings (five-ring DNA catenanes) using the same strategy. The key challenge in our experiment was to control the linking number (Lk) between DNA rings, and the ideal Lk value was 1. To achieve that, we designed base pairing number to 8~10 bp for ring hybridization (DNA helix with 10.4 bp/turn). We established an efficient approach to make DNA catenanes even though the base pairing number in our design was not enough to catenate DNA rings in previous reports. Denaturing PAGE was used to detect and purify product and Atomic Force Microscope (AFM) could be used for further observation of the structures. Our project lays the foundation for exploring properties of complex interlocked DNA rings and infuses new blood for the fabrication of DNA nano-machines. 

**Team:** Pukyong National University — DNA Spiders
**Title:** DNA spider silk: engineering nanostructured fibrils
**Abstract:** Spider silks in nature have gained great interest for decades because of their remarkable physical properties : high tensile strength, low density and thermal stability. These features are closely related to the intrinsic structure of protein components. We anticipate that large scale production of artificial fibers mimicking the structures using nucleic acids enzymes and DNA origamis. Inspired by the protein structure of spider silks, proposed novel fibrils consist of amorphous and crystalline segments corresponding to enzymatically replicated long DNAs and DNA origami bricks, respectively. This DNA nanofiber is capable of engineering the nanostructures in high precision through modification of the components. Our method will pave the way to understanding the structural influence to mechanical properties of spider silks and applying the materials to various fields.

**Team:** The Ohio State University — OhioMOD
**Title:** Novel microRNA antisense therapeutic delivery using DNA origami nanostructures
**Abstract:** MicroRNAs (miRs) are short, non-coding RNAs that regulate gene expression and control essential cellular   processes, such as cell cycle progression and apoptosis, through interactions with messenger RNA. Dysregulation of miR expression levels can promote tumorigenesous either by elevating oncogene or silencing tumor suppressor gene levels implicating miRs as an attractive therapeutic target. One therapeutic approach is to decrease levels of miRs that target tumor suppressor genes such as PTEN to ultimately promote apoptosis by complementary base pair antagonism via antisense DNA, but limitations exist in regard to antisense DNA cellular delivery. A previous study demonstrated that DNA nanostructures functionalized with small interfering RNA (siRNA) underwent efficient cellular entry and executed targeted gene suppression suggesting strong potential for DNA nanostructures as a nucleotide delivery vehicle. Here, we report the fabrication of a rod-like and a block-like DNA nanostructure incorporated with DNA overhangs capable of binding and sequestering miR-21, a PTEN targeting miR that is overexpressed in a variety of malignancies including chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Proper assembly was confirmed via gel electrophoresis and transmission electron microscopy. Incorporation and functionality of DNA overhangs complementary for miR-21 was confirmed via fluorescent gel imaging. In addition, DNA nanostructures were shown to enter the endolysosomal pathway as revealed via fluorescent microscopy. Furthermore, miR-21 complementary DNA overhang functionalized structures  induced marked decreases in OSU-CLL cell viability relative to scrambled control overhang nanostructures as shown via fluorescent microscopy. Future work will directly investigate expression levels of PTEN mRNA and   protein using quantitative real time PCR and immunoblot analysis respectively. Our current findings suggest that the complementary miR-21 DNA overhang functionalized DNA nanostructures effectively sequester miR-21 to induce cytoxicity in OSU-CLL cells. Our results represent a promising antisense DNA delivery therapeutic approach in a CLL leukemia model with implications to a variety of human malignancies.

**Team:** The University of Tokyo Kashiwa — UTokyo Chem & Bio
**Title:** Polymeric and Liposomal Immune Cell for Cancer Treatment
**Abstract:** Cancer treatment is still a challenging issue. We tried to create Polymeric and Liposomal Immune Cell (PoLICe), which moves autonomously and attacks cancer cells. Upon receiving outside signals, PoLICes get activated and initiate polymerization of inner monomers. Consequently, PoLICes migrate and start patrolling our body to find and kill cancer cells. Active transport system of PoLICes makes it possible to execute precise surveillance at single cell resolution, which is not easy in diffusion movement base targeting of conventional Drug Delivery System (DDS).  In our summer project, we tried to make prototype of PoLICe. We designed two DNA origami structures: the Receptor, which receives an outside signal molecule and causes signal transduction into PoLICe, and the Motor-Monomer, which polymerizes according to a signal from the Receptor. Our purpose is to change the shape of liposomes upon signal activation, which is the first step toward to create an artificial cell patrolling our body to find and treat the cancer cells at single cell resolution.  

**Team:** Tianjin University — Tianjin
**Title:** DNA PhotoSensor
**Abstract:** The emergence of DNA nanotechnology has led to the design and bottom-up construction of a wide range of artificial nanostructures with spatially diverse addressable shapes, two- and three-dimensional (2D and 3D) geometries, and functions as well as nanodevices and nanomachines. With a high level of structural programmability and obvious biocompatibility, accurately controlled and self-assembled DNA origami is emerging as a strong candidate for delivery of small biomolecules in living systems.  Hence, this year, we design a GNP-DNA origami complex, which possess both photothermal properties associated with GNPs and programming properties intrinsic to DNA. The complex responds to optical stimulation, since we modified GNPs on particular margin-staple strand, just like the zipper on the clothes. Once given the range intensities of optical stimulation, we prospect that the generated heat by GNPs can separate the staple strand with breaking the hydrogen bonds of surrounding double-strand DNA, and open the occlusive DNA origami case. To avoid the reclosing of origami, we develop a special strand- displacement reaction towards the link between GNPs and DNA origami.  Our device is photo-triggerable, which embrace remote controllability, low systemic toxicity and few side effects. We select to motivate the photothermal induction of GNPs by Near-infrared irradiation (NIR irradiation), because NIR irradiation can penetrate deeper in tissues and cause less photodamage in comparison to visible light and UV-vis irradiation.  Finally, by introducing gold nanoparticles into DNA origami, we demonstrate the device as an efficient light-controllable switch, making this a promising candidate platform for unique potential applications intended for anticancer therapy, nanorobot and protein synthesis in vivo.

**Team:** Tohoku University — Team Sendai
**Title:** Tales of the Order – Universal Strand Generator
**Abstract:**  Our goal is to realize a device which is able to generate different DNA strands in a given arbitrary order. The device consists of a tape and a black box. The tape is a long single-stranded DNA which describes the order of the output. There is no limitation in the length of the tape. The black box is a set of molecules that reads out the information on the tape to generate corresponding output strands. To achieve this, we have designed a reaction network by using DNA computing. When the tape is put in the box (e.g. a test tube containing the molecules), a section on its 3’-end is read and corresponding output is produced. When the concentration of the output reaches the threshold, the tape strand is updated though disabling the first section and enabling the next section. By repeating this, we can program various complex molecular reactions such as sequential assembly of nanostructures and behavior control of molecular robots.

**Team:** TU Braunschweig — Braunschweig
**Title:** Building the world´s smallest car
**Abstract:** DNA is not only a polymer which stores genetic information. Because of its complementary nucleobases DNA provides the opportunity to build complex structures – so called DNA origami – and use them as a template to investigate interactions of molecules, proteins and nanoparticle or as vehicle to transport cargo. Our team designs a nanoscale car consisting of DNA. This nanoscooter becomes motile on mica surfaces by adapting the kind and concentration of cations in the buffer. Directed movement is achieved by the backstroke of emerging gases that are produced at platinum nanoparticles tethered to the back of the nanoscooter. A steering mechanism for the car, which is controlled by heating and cooling by a laser, could be realized with gold nanoparticles. The shape of the DNA origami is confirmed by atomic force microscopy, while the movement of the car on a flat mica surface can be illustrated by fluorescence microscopy using fluorescent beads. This type of DNA origami can be used for directed transport of different components. In the future this technology could be applied for targeted delivery of drugs or for the supply in nanoscale factories.

**Team:** TU Dresden — Dresden DNAmic
**Title:** Self-assembled Plasmonic Waveguides and Switches for DNA Computing and Nanophotonic Circuits
**Abstract:** Nanoscale devices can be produced from DNA with higher precision and in a more scalable way than with any other available technique. For example, optically active components such as gold nanoparticles can be arranged on DNA scaffolds to create building blocks for future optoelectronic circuitry. Here, we attach functionalized gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) on 6 helix bundle (6HB) DNA origami structures to assemble waveguides. The surface plasmon resonance (SPR) properties of AuNPs allow to transmit electromagnetic waves along the DNA origami templated AuNP chain. Such waveguides are 1000 times smaller than classical optical fibers, and could therefore potentially be integrated into nanometer-sized electrical circuits.     Moreover, we devise an ON/OFF switching system using oligonucleotides as an input signal for this type of DNA origami waveguide. For this, a DNA origami breadboard is used to align two waveguides in close proximity. Single-stranded DNA is used for anchoring the waveguides to the breadboard structure. The waveguides are interconnected via complementary strands. ON/OFF switching of the waveguides is based on reversible hybridization and strand displacement. With this approach, we aim to combine the benefits of parallel DNA computing and superfast photonic circuits.

**Team:** Universidad Autónoma de Nuevo León — Nanolab
**Title:** Liposome nanoreactors for medical and industrial applications
**Abstract:** The need to create nanoscale reactions has been rising, due to the limiting factor of substrate concentration or the conditions in which the reaction takes place. A high concentration of uric acid in the human body can lead to multiple illnesses and uncomfort to the individual that suffers this condition. High levels of this substance can be caused by many situations like an unhealthy diet, a deficient disposal through urination or excessive purine degradation which is the result of illnesses: Lupus Syndrome or Tumor Lysis Syndrome. Because of the wide range of applications, this has a high impact on society, a biocompatible liposome-based nanoreactor was designed, containing specific enzymes which degrade the insoluble uric acid so that it can then be released from the body by urine. With the same core concept, we designed a system for the production of renewable fuel. The reaction is based on the production of diatomic hydrogen from urea in biological waste, resulting in a final compound with a high energy content.  Therefore, we show the importance of the development of nanoscale systems, and an overview of their potential applications in public issues.

**Team:** University of Calgary — Stampedosaurs
**Title:** DNA detection: don't FRET about it.
**Abstract:** The concentration of DNA found in blood is very low (10-14 M) making it highly difficult to detect. To overcome this challenge, we have fabricated a nanobiosensor capable of detecting multiple single stranded DNA (ssDNA) sequences at single molecule quantities. Contrary to current DNA detection techniques, this sensor does not require the use of time consuming DNA amplification steps. A multifunctional nanocomposite consisting of iron oxide nanoparticles incorporated into a silica matrix and coated with dye-functionalized ssDNA has been engineered. This allows us to trap and manipulate target ssDNA of interest. Single molecule Förster resonance energy transfer (smFRET) is used to confirm the presence of the target sequences as well as the concentration of these targets based on their relative FRET efficiencies. The selectivity of complementary DNA strands and sensitivity of smFRET confers a distinct advantage of our biosensor over conventional DNA detection techniques.

**Team:** University of California, Riverside — Breaking RNA
**Title:** RNA Clocks and Switches
**Abstract:** Biomolecular clocks and toggle switches are circuits with important roles in biological systems; for instance, oscillators direct circadian rhythms, and bistable circuits control many developmental pathways. We are building simple synthetic transcriptional in vitro oscillatory and bistable circuits using RNA aptamers. Similar circuits have been constructed in the past; however, our systems are the first to utilize RNA aptamers. These RNA aptamers regulate bacterial RNA polymerases’ activity to generate positive and negative feedback loops. We built numerical models, which show our systems exhibit the expected behaviors. Experimentally, we have shown that RNA polymerases can be inhibited and reactivated by the binding and removal of the aptamers through strand displacement. This is an important step towards experimentally validating our circuits. The simplicity of our design allows it to be easily built upon, thus, paving the way for new biological circuits where RNA aptamers are powerful, programmable tools for designing dynamic interactions.

**Team:** University of Rome Tor Vergata — Team Rome
**Title:** Electric DNA nanomachines
**Abstract:** DNA nanotechnology uses DNA (or nucleic acids) as a versatile material to rationally engineer tools and molecular devices that can find a multitude of different applications (e.g. in-vivo imaging, clinical diagnostics, drug-delivery, etc.). An exciting development of this field, namely functional DNA nanotechnology, uses DNA to build nanometre-scale devices, often referred to as DNA nanomachines, that in the presence of an input (i.e. target) can perform specific functions (release of a drug, physical movement etc.). Many of these DNA-based nanomachines are based on the use of DNA-based switches that function through a structure-switching mechanism induced by the binding to a specific input (target).  Here we propose the use of electrochemistry to trigger several DNA-based switches with future potential as DNA-based nanomachines.  More specifically, we were able to activate DNA-based switches through the electrochemically controlled release of metal ions and ssDNA strands.   The preliminary results achieved during this Biomod project demonstrate the possibility to exogenously trigger a DNA-based nanomachine using a simple electronic input. Because of the simplicity and low-cost associated with basic electronic devices (i.e. battery, power supply, etc) such approach might open the future to a new way to control and trigger DNA-based nanomachines. 

**Team:** University of Texas at Austin — Nano Horn
**Title:** Rise of Chiagamis
**Abstract:** We aim to design a DNA origami with some linear or branched strands of DNA growing outward from the scaffold, like “branches” growing out of Chia pets (Chiagami). G-wires make for good candidates to simulate these “branches” because they are short and readily self-assemble. A single decamer, Tet1.5(dGGGGTTGGGG), can self-assemble to form linear quadruplex structures that may grow up to 100-1000 nm, allowing them to be observed using atomic force microscopy (AFM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). By introducing a photo-cleavable spacer, we can also potentially “trim” the “branches” by UV light. In this work we will present the optimized conditions for linear G-wire growth, as well as the development of a two-dimensional G-net that makes use of a symmetrical branching reagent of our own design. We will grow Chiagami structures based on these initial optimizations.

**Team:** University of Tokyo, Komaba — UT-Komaba
**Title:** Polychrome DNA Beads
**Abstract:** We aim to make "polychrome DNA beads", which will enable us to make 3D  structures at a micro-scale in a bottom-up manner. The sphere of a polychrome  DNA bead is separated into several regions, each covered with a different kind  of ssDNA. If the core of a bead is made of a magnetic particle, self-assembly of  beads and conformational change or destruction of self-assembled structures can  be controlled by magnetic field as well as hybridization of complementary  ssDNAs. We can also raise the temperature of a bead using high-frequency  magnetic field. However, attaching different ssDNAs to different regions of a  bead is still a great challenge. In this project, we tried to make "bi-color DNA  beads", which are polychrome DNA beads whose hemispheres are covered with two  kinds of ssDNAs.

**Team:** University of Waterloo — uwDNA
**Title:** Boron-Layered Gold Nanoparticles with Biotin-Functionalized DNA Tensegrity
**Abstract:** In current research, gold nanoparticles have been identified as effective bio-sensing substrates, as well as effective drug vectors, partly due to their inherent biocompatibility. This project utilizes gold nanoparticles as a basis for a multi-functionalized payload vector for oncologic radiotherapy. Starting with a 5 nm gold core, alternating layers of cationic polyelectrolyte (4-Borono-L-Phenylalanine-Poly(fluorescein isothiocyanate allylamine) hydrochloride (BPA:FITC-PAH)) and anionic polyelectrolyte (4-Borono-L-Phenylalanine-Poly(4-styrene sulfonate) (BPA:PSS)) are electrostatically deposited onto the nanoparticle surface. Finally, folic acid is electrostatically functionalized to the surface of the layered particle. Separately, tensegrity DNA Origami structures are synthesized, and then "walked" over a 150 nm by 100 nm flat DNA Origami tile. During "walking", the tensegrity structures have a biotinylated DNA cargo conjugated onto one of their three available binding sites. The tensegrity structures are then attached to the layered gold nanoparticle (LGNP) through an EDC-sulfo-NHS coupling method. The final product is a gold nanoparticle, layered with boron-containing polyelectrolytes, and functionalized with DNA tensegrity structures hosting biotinylated DNA. Biotinylated DNA was used in this project as a proof-of-concept for a true cancer-targeting agent; in a clinical setting, a cancer targeting agent would be substituted. In practice, this system would selectively bind to the surface of cancer cells. It would then undergo cell uptake and be subsequently irradiated with a neutron beam. This induces a decay reaction between the boron and thermal neutrons, which releases a lethal dose of energy in approximately the diameter of the cell. Lastly, the gold nanoparticle core acts as an MRI contrast enhancer to actively track the progress of oncological treatment. Therefore, the proposed system actively targets and kills cancer cells while leaving healthy cells unharmed.

**Team:** Victor Chang Cardiac Research Institute Australia — Team echiDNA
**Title:** Cooperative Molecular Biosensor
**Abstract:** What is the difference between a few undergraduates and a BIOMOD team? Or between a single ant and a colony of social insects? What about a population of individual cells and a multicellular organism? Between monodispersed proteins and a multi-protein complex like the bacterial flagella motor? What is the difference between a set of oligos and a DNA nanomachine?    It is believed that cooperativity between staples expedites the assembly of folding DNA origami structures. We aim to design, build and characterise a DNA nanomachine that exhibits cooperativity in its function. We have drawn inspiration primarily from two sources in the design of our DNA biosensor - the molecular beacons used routinely to identify trace amounts of DNA and the switching mechanism of the bacterial flagella motor. Here we construct a circular ring of DNA switches which are tethered together such that they essentially 'vote' whether to undergo a conformational change. This project has the potential to inform realistic models of the molecular mechanics of bionanomachines, but also to provide a cheap, robust alternative to existing DNA biosensors. Our design is modular, so that the DNA targeted by our biosensor might be anything - an HIV virus, a mutation associated with cancer, a gene causing antibiotic resistance. Furthermore, our biosensor is accompanied by an extensive mathematical model of its dynamics and thus we hope it will be tuneable to specific outputs.

**Team:** Xiamen University — Team Nanobiocat
**Title:** Assembly of multi-enzyme inspired by bio-mimic DNA's structure
**Abstract:** To bio-mimic DNA’s structure, multi-enzyme assembly method was developed by combination of metal ions coordination and bioconjugation of biotin and streptavidin. Oriented assembling of two enzymes formed structure similar to DNA. Polyethyleneimine (PEI) chelated with metal ions was used as framework. Glycerol dehydrogenases (GDH) and NADH oxidase (NOX) modified by biotin and streptavidin respectively, were attached to the framework by metal ions coordination. Based on the strong specific binding ability between biotin and streptavidin, site-to-site assembly of two enzymes formed stable and oriented configuration which formed substrate channeling and favored the intermediate turnover. The enzyme stability and activity were greatly enhanced. The mechanism was studied by dynamic simulation. Due to the advance of this multi-enzyme system, dioxyacetone can be in situ biosynthesized efficiently from glycerol within a short period, making possible for sun-free tanning.
  