---
layout: post
title: "Survey: Future of BIOMOD"
date: Thu, 14 Feb 2019 07:15:00 +0000
---

This year represents the **10th anniversary** of our nano-sized design competition, and we are planning some changes to enhance the sustainability and global reach of the competition.

<!--more-->

**Schedule changes**

We are shifting the current schedule back by ~5 months from the normal schedule. Thus, we will host the next Jamboree in San Francisco in March 2021.

The majority of participating teams come from outside the United States, and we are shifting the BIOMOD schedule to better align with the academic calendars of participants worldwide. This change is also necessary for upcoming venue location changes.

We expect that the teams' research calendars will also shift to reflect the new schedule - teams could still kick off the year with intense summer activity in the lab, and then use the fall and early spring semesters to wrap up the projects.

**Venue changes**

We will host the next event in San Francisco, but we are planning to host the 2022 Jamboree in Australia, and the 2023 Jamboree in Japan. Subsequent events may rotate back to the US and/or Europe, depending on interest and volunteer support (contact us if interested!)

**Your Feedback**

We have some flexibility in the specific Jamboree dates in 2021 (March 12–14 vs 19–21), and would like to hear your preferences! We would also like to gauge interest for future years.

Please fill out our survey here: https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/337TDVS

Additional comments can be sent to: http://biomod.net/contact/
