---
layout: page
title:  "Privacy Policy"
date:   2013-08-28 16:27:08
permalink: /privacy-policy/index.html
category: page
---


## Privacy Policy


The following discloses our information gathering and dissemination practices for the Biomod site ([http://biomod.net/](http://biomod.net/ "http://biomod.net/")):

## Information gathering

We use your IP address to help diagnose problems with our server and to administer our Web site by identifying (1) which parts of our site are most heavily used, and (2) which portion of our audience comes from within the Harvard network. We do not link IP addresses to anything personally identifiable. This means that user sessions will be tracked, but the users will remain anonymous. Our staff occasionally monitors search terms that users enter into our search engine but this tracking is never associated with individual users.

## Use of information

Biomod uses the information gathered above to tailor site content to user needs, and to generate aggregate statistical reports. At no time do we disclose site usage by individual IP addresses. Web server logs are retained on a temporary basis and then deleted completely from our systems.

## Contacting Biomod

If you have any questions about this privacy statement, the practices of this site, or your dealings with this site, you can contact:

Biomod

3 Blackfan Circle — 5th Floor

Boston, MA 02115

[info@biomod.net](mailto:info@biomod.net)

The Biomod home page contains links to some sites outside the "biomod.net" domain. Biomod is not responsible for the privacy practices or the content of such Web sites.
